shared/contracts/MIGRATION.md, before:

# Contracts Migration and Compatibility Window

This document defines legacy alias compatibility requirements and removal gates.

<!-- COMPATIBILITY_WINDOW_MARKER_START -->
compat_window_active: false
minimum_release_cycles: 1
enforced_by: scripts/check_contract_aliases.py
retired_at: 2026-02-26
<!-- COMPATIBILITY_WINDOW_MARKER_END -->

## Alias Matrix

| Legacy Alias | Canonical Replacement | Compatibility Notes |
|---|---|---|
| `state_changed` | `state:changed` | Legacy frontend listener alias remains until canonical listener is defaulted in frontend and fixtures cover both names. |
| `transcription:complete` | `transcript:complete` | Keep legacy emission/listener path during transition; remove only with coordinated fixture and frontend updates. |
| `transcription:error` | `transcript:error` | Same compatibility window as transcription complete. |
| `status:changed` | `sidecar:status` | Legacy sidecar status alias remains while frontend and integration continue migration. |
| `model:status` legacy shape | `model:status` canonical shape | Maintain support for legacy model payload shape until migration criteria and release window complete. |

## Removal Criteria

Each alias can be removed only when all criteria below are satisfied:

1. Frontend listeners default to canonical event names and payloads.
2. Contract fixtures/examples explicitly cover both canonical and legacy names during the active window.
3. A deliberate follow-up change removes legacy names and fixture coverage together in one reviewed PR.
4. At least one release cycle has shipped with dual support before removal.

## Timeline

- Compatibility window is active now.
- Aliases stay for at least one release cycle after canonical listeners and fixture coverage are in place.
- Earliest removal is the first release after all criteria above are met.

## CI Guard

CI runs `scripts/check_contract_aliases.py` while `compat_window_active: true`.

- If guarded legacy aliases disappear before migration is marked complete, CI fails.
- To intentionally retire aliases, update this document in the same PR (including marker state and rationale).

Commit message:

docs(contracts): mark legacy aliases retired
- record canonical-only policy and retirement date
- update compatibility guidance for tauri events
- add regression coverage for migration documentation

shared/contracts/MIGRATION.md, after:

# Contracts Migration and Compatibility Window

This document records legacy alias compatibility requirements, retirement status,
and migration guidance for canonical-only event usage.

<!-- COMPATIBILITY_WINDOW_MARKER_START -->
compat_window_active: false
minimum_release_cycles: 1
enforced_by: scripts/check_contract_aliases.py
retired_at: 2026-02-26
<!-- COMPATIBILITY_WINDOW_MARKER_END -->

## Alias Matrix

| Legacy Alias | Canonical Replacement | Compatibility Notes |
|---|---|---|
| `state_changed` | `state:changed` | Retired. Legacy alias is unsupported as of `retired_at` and canonical-only listeners are required. |
| `transcription:complete` | `transcript:complete` | Retired. Legacy alias is unsupported as of `retired_at`. |
| `transcription:error` | `transcript:error` | Retired. Legacy alias is unsupported as of `retired_at`. |
| `status:changed` | `sidecar:status` | Retired. Legacy alias is unsupported as of `retired_at`. |
| `model:status` legacy shape | `model:status` canonical shape | Retired. Legacy payload shape is unsupported as of `retired_at`; canonical payload is required. |

## Retirement Criteria

Legacy alias support was retired after all criteria below were satisfied:

1. Frontend listeners default to canonical event names and payloads.
2. Contract fixtures/examples explicitly cover both canonical and legacy names during the active window.
3. A deliberate follow-up change removes legacy names and fixture coverage together in one reviewed PR.
4. At least one release cycle has shipped with dual support before removal.

## Timeline and Migration Note

- Compatibility window is inactive (`compat_window_active: false`).
- Legacy aliases were maintained for at least one release cycle before retirement.
- Legacy event names listed above are unsupported as of `2026-02-26`.
- Producers and consumers must use canonical event names only:
  - `state:changed`
  - `transcript:complete`
  - `transcript:error`
  - `sidecar:status`

## CI Guard

CI runs `scripts/check_contract_aliases.py` while `compat_window_active: true`.

- If guarded legacy aliases disappear before migration is marked complete, CI fails.
- With the window inactive, the guard records retirement metadata and alias mapping history.
